[MUSIC]
Welcome to the introduction to
statistical forecasting module.
During this section of the course, we will
explore fundamental statistical methods
which are useful in using data to develop
forward expectations or forecasts.
Course participants are assumed to have
had some previous exposure to statistics.
Though we will provide reference materials
to concepts presented in this module.
We will explain the statistical concepts
employed in the following analyses,
that encourage participants to
further their study independently.
We will spend a bit longer introducing
concepts in this module than we have in
the others.
Given the statistical nature of these
concepts, it's important that participants
spend time to understand the statistical
methods employed in this module,
as they are powerful, but nuanced.
In order to use data to
produce statistical forecasts,
we need to understand regression analysis.
Regression analysis is one of the most
commonly used statistical methods to
produce data driven forecasts.
Simple linear regression
analysis uses one variable,
the independent variable to explain
another variable, the dependent variable.
For example, you might use
a person's height to explain and
predict a person's weight.
A thorough exploration of linear
regression is beyond the scope of
this module, but we encourage course
participants to study this powerful
statistical method, or to take one of
the many related courses on Coursera.
There are a few concepts that you should
understand, at least at a high level
before we proceed to their application
in our Excel problem sets.
We encourage you to spend time
studying these concepts independently
if you are unfamiliar.
Standard deviation is a measurement of
the average dispersion of values in
a data set around their average value.
That is how spread out the data
are from their average value.
This is related to variance but
it is more frequently used to describe
the average dispersion of a data set.
The implication follows that a variance
in the highest standard deviation should
imply lower confidence in the outputs of
a statistical forecast using the data.
Standard deviation is
the square root of variance and
as such, relates more directly
to the values in the dataset.
Variance, as previously mentioned,
also measures how far
on average a set of data values are spread
out form their average or mean.
Higher variance in your data should
result in you being less confident and
the accuracy of your prediction
because your data is so
widely spread out around
their average value.
Again, variance has the same
implication as standard deviation,
it is simply squared to amplify
dispersion from the main value.
Covariance is a measure of how
two variables change together.
Covariance is not normalized, meaning
that there's no meaningful way to compare
covariances across different variables.
We need another measurement to compare
the way two variables change together
in order to draw meaningful conclusions.
Correlation provides us this normalized
measure of covariance, that is,
how two variables change together.
Normalization of covariance results in
a measure which we can use to meaningfully
compare how two variables move together.
This is a normalized measure, and so
it results in a value between -1 and
1 and gives an objective indication of
the relationship between two variables.
It also tells us the direction of that
relationship, positive or negative.
Values close to zero indicate that
the relationship is not very strong.
R-squared, or
the coefficient of determination, is
a number that indicates the proportion
of the variance in one variable that
is predictable from the other variable.
A higher R squared value indicates
a better fit of our statistical
measurement of the relationship between
the variables to the data itself.
The definition above is important to note,
it has a similar
interpretation as correlation
though since it is squared the direction
of the relationship cannot be determined.
Let's have a high level overview
now of linear regression.
Using linear regression we
can quantify the relationship
between changes in the independent,
or input, variable, and
changes in the dependent,
or outcome variable.
For example, let's look at
the relationship in the variables Y,
X, m and B as shown on the slide below.
We see here Y=mX+B this
relationship could be read as,
Y is equal to m multiplied by X and
added to B.
You may recognize this as the classic
slope intercept form of an equation for
a straight line,
as we are all taught in algebra.
Simple linear regression
analysis of a dataset
may result in a similar quantified
relationship for a dataset.
For example, our regression analysis
may result that m=3 and B=100.
Using this quantified relationship,
we can input values of X to predict values
of Y, which we don't have in our dataset.
For example,
if we input a value of 100 for X,
we can use this quantified relationship
to produce a value of 400 for Y.
We will explore regression
analysis in a simplified example.
First though, we must develop a thesis,
or hypothesis, for
our forecasting relationship.
A few additional statistical forecasting
concepts that are important to
understand include the Y-intercept,
which is the point where the graph
of a function, or in this case,
the graph of our relationship between our
two variables, intersects the Y-axis.
This is the value which cannot be
explained by our regression analysis and
is constant despite our measured
relationship between two variables.
This also represents the value
of our dependent variable
when your independent
variable is equal to zero.
The slope of a function is a number
that describes both the direction and
the steepness of the line
graph of that function.
This tells us how much we expect
our dependent variable to change
with every one unit change
in our independent variable.
We show two examples of two data
sets with different standard
deviation variants, correlation,
and R squared values.
Notice that higher standard deviation and
variance results in
a much more dispersed or
spread out data set around the mean value.
While lower standard deviation and
variance result in a more tightly
dispersed data set around the mean.
Let's discuss our specific example.
It will be simple and explore the use
of regression analysis to predict
visits to a website based on the number
of social media mentions of the site.
Our thesis here is that it's
reasonable to think that as mentions
of a website on social media increase,
the number of people who visit
the site will also increase, and
result in increased web traffic or
page hits to the site.
Starting with a thesis like this is
fundamental to regression analysis.
This statistical method can
be used to determine if
there is a correlative relationship
between two variables.
In our case, the relationship between
the number of social media mentions,
the independent variable, and
visits to our website,
the dependent variable.
We have measures of the strength of this
relationship which we will discuss later.
If these measures indicate a strong
relationship we can conclude
that social media mentions and
visits to our website are related.
A strong relationship determined via
linear regression analysis does not,
however imply a causal relationship
between the two variables.
Said differently,
it does not imply that traffic
increased to our website because
of social media mentions,
but, rather,
that increased web traffic to our website
tends to increase with increases
in social media mentions.
This is an important distinction,
though causal analysis is beyond
the scope of this module.
In order to complete the exercises
in this week's problem set
you'll need to enable
the Analysis ToolPak in Excel.
We've included a link to instructions on
how to do this in the reference materials.
Please take a moment to ensure
that you have the ToolPak enabled
before continuing.
You'll know that you've successfully
enabled the ToolPak if you see it on
the Data tab of the ribbon,
as in our image below.
[MUSIC]